---
layout: post
title: "2016 summary"
date: 2017-01-14 14:24
comments: true
categories: [Web, Freelance, relocation, Canada] 
keywords: Rails, rails, ruby, meteor, Meteor.js, JS, js, Canada, Toronto, freelance
description: "A lot happened in 2016: relocating Ukraine to Canada, retooling from Rails to Meteor.js"
---


Hey everybody. Since 2016 is now officially over I can finally more or less summurise how it went. Overall it's been a hussle for me from the very begginning. It all started from taking a decicion to move to Canada and most of the endavours during the year were pointed towards that goal. That included finishing my freelance activity and searching for a "normal" (as most people will agree) in-office job. Well from my current viewpoint I can say that it turned to be a very refreshing and new experience for me. So now I reside in the city of immigrants - Toronto enjoying mostly snowless winter and people who always say "sorry" :). There is a lot I can say about relocating process, worth a [separate blog about travelling which I actually have here](https://sirousblog.wordpress.com/) (unfortunately not in English).
<!-- More -->

Keeping talking about 2016 updates, the most noticable move in my developer career (not counting freelance => office switch) is wrapping up Rails & Ruby development in favour of Meteor.js/Node ecosystem. Well to be honest, when I first encountered Meteor it was still in a very fetus state but even then I undesrtood that this aligns with my imagination of future web development more than what Rails proposes. So I was just patiantely waiting while Meteor gains stability and matureness required to be called a production ready framework. And the guys behind it did a great job to make it happen. 

Therefore the was a tipping point in 2016 and most of the year I devoted to JS development and turned a few mate Rails devs into Meteor devs as well btw. What can I say about it, every Rails dev retooled into Meteor.js keep saying the same story: when I first tried meteor it was the same exciting experience as happened to me when I first tried rails after PHP/.NET/whatever. And I'm absolutely all for these words!

To sum up everything above, I'm turning the next page in my life and I'm very excited to see where it's going to lead me to.
